feat: Add docs for starfish resource module (#8473)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/performance/resources.md

---
title: Resources
sidebar_order: 50
description: "Learn more about browser resource performance monitoring, which allows you to see debug the performance of loading JavaScript and CSS on your frontend."
---

If you have performance monitoring enabled for your frontend, you can see how your browser resources are performing in Sentry.

Starting with the [**Resources** page](#resources-page), you get a high-level overview of how your resources are doing. From there, you can drill into a specific query's [**Resource Summary** page](#resource-summary-page) and then investigate sample events from the [Sample List](#sample-list) to better understand the context of its performance in a specific page.

<!-- TODO add gif -->

## Prerequisites and Limitations

> The resource pages are only available for frontend JavaScript projects with performance monitoring enabled. You need to enable automatic instrumentation via the `BrowserTracing` integration for your frontend project to see resource performance data.
> 
> Automatic Instrumentation for frontend JavaScript is supported for the following platforms:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resource pages are only available for frontend JavaScript projects with performance monitoring enabled. 

For the best experience, we recommend enabling automatic instrumentation via the `BrowserTracing` integration for your frontend project to see resource performance data. This is supported for the following JavaScript platforms:
```

Original wording implied that resources is only available with automatic instrumentation, but from the next section it sounds like manual also works, so reworded this a bit.

Reviewer 2: good point!

- [Vanilla JavaScript](/platforms/javascript/performance/)
- [Angular](/platforms/javascript/guides/angular/performance/)
- [Astro](/platforms/javascript/guides/astro/performance/)
- [Ember](/platforms/javascript/guides/ember/performance/)
- [Gatsby](/platforms/javascript/guides/gatsby/performance/)
- [Next.js](/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/performance/)
- [React](/platforms/javascript/guides/react/performance/)
- [Remix](/platforms/javascript/guides/remix/performance/)
- [Svelte](/platforms/javascript/guides/svelte/performance/)
- [SvelteKit](/platforms/javascript/guides/sveltekit/performance/)
- [Vue](/platforms/javascript/guides/vue/performance/)

### Span Eligibility

> Sentry tries to extract metrics by looking at resource related spans.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sentry tries to extract metrics by looking at resource-related spans.
```

The JavaScript SDK automatically generates `resource` spans on `pageload` and `navigation` transactions using the browser's [Resource Timing API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Performance_API/Resource_timing).

> If you are using <PlatformLink to="/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation">automatic instrumentation</PlatformLink>, resource monitoring should work without any configuration. If you've manually instrumented Sentry, you'll need to make sure that your spans conform to our standards for the best experience:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using <PlatformLink to="/performance/instrumentation/automatic-instrumentation">automatic instrumentation</PlatformLink>, resource monitoring should work without any configuration.

If you've manually instrumented Sentry, you'll need to make sure that your spans conform to our standards for the best experience:
```

Let's make it a separate paragraph since the following list is only relevant for manual instrumentation.

- The span `op` field is prefixed with `resource` (for example, `resource.script` or `resource.css`).

> - The span's description contains the URL of the loaded resource, this comes from the [PerformanceResourceTiming name field](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceEntry/name).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The span's `description` contains the URL of the loaded resource, this comes from the [PerformanceResourceTiming name field](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceEntry/name).
```

```js
// https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceResourceTiming
const resources = performance.getEntriesByType("resource");
resources.forEach((entry) => {
  const startTime = msToSec(entry.startTime);
  const duration = msToSec(entry.duration);

  const span = Sentry.startInactiveSpan({
    startTimestamp: startTime,
    op: entry.initiatorType
      ? `resource.${entry.initiatorType}`
      : "resource.other",
    description: entry.name,
    data: {
      "http.response_transfer_size": entry.transferSize,
      "http.response_content_length": entry.encodedBodySize,
      "http.decoded_response_content_length": entry.decodedBodySize,
      "resource.render_blocking_status": entry.renderBlockingStatus,
    },
  });

  // override end timestamp to match performance entry
  span.finish(startTime + duration);
});
```

## Resources Page

The **Resources** page gives you a quick overview of your application's resource performance for the selected project(s). You can use this page as a starting point to investigate potential problem resources and drill down to better understand how various resources are affecting your app's performance.

> Open the **Resources** page by clicking "Resources" in the sidebar, under "Performance". Alternatively, the **Performance** page also surfaces the highest impact queries in the [TBD] widget. From there, you can click "View All" to open the **Resources** page.

Reviewer 2: Just a note for myself to address tbd

Reviewer 2: TBD addressed

At the top of the page, summary graphs for requests per minute (throughput) and average duration provide high-level insight into the performance of your resources. If you see an anomaly or want to investigate a time range further, you can click and drag to select a range directly in a graph to filter data for that time range.

The resource table below shows a list of grouped resources, along with their type, their volume (requests per min), average duration, the total time your app spent loading that resource (time spent), and [average encoded size](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceResourceTiming/encodedBodySize) of the resource.

> Currently only JavaScript and CSS resources are supported.

Reviewer: Consider moving this line up to the "Prerequisites and Limitations" section

Reviewer 2: Good idea, Moved it!

By default, the resources table is sorted by most time spent, which serves as a proxy for the relative performance impact of a given resource. A resource's time spent is the sum of all its durations in a given time period or, put another way, the product of its average duration and requests per minute. This means that resources at the top are usually loading really slowly, very frequently, or both.

You can click on a column header to change how the table is sorted. Sort by requests per minute to see the most frequently loaded resources or by average duration to see the slowest-loading resources.

To view more details, click on a resource from the table to open its **Resource Summary** page.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: calc(50.86013462976814% + 41px); height: 0;"><iframe src="https://demo.arcade.software/dVvM0eWdGjN7bVhxSwJr?embed" frameborder="0" loading="lazy" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;color-scheme: light;"></iframe></div>

```

### Resource Parameterization

To enable Sentry to group similar resources together, Sentry parameterizes resource URLs, removing potenially dynamic elements. This helps track the performance of a particular resource across different releases, even when they have dynamic segments (used for busting caches or CDNS).

> To see an example of resource URL from a group, hover over a URL in the **Resource Summary** page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see an example of resource URL from a group, hover over a URL in the resource table.
```
I think you're talking about a url in the table on the Resources page here. I don't see anything when hovering in the resource summary page, but not sure if I'm looking at the right thing or if this is planned.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, this is when hovering over a resource description on the resource table.

> ## Resource Summary Page

Reviewer 2: Should we add a part that explains the charts, or at least the resource size chart which is first seen here

Reviewer 2: added

To open a query's **Resource Summary** page, click on the resource from the table in the **Resources** page.

> At the top of the page, average encoded size, average decoded size, average transfer size, average duration, and requests per minute are shown for the selected time range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the top of the page, average encoded size, average decoded size, average transfer size, average duration, and requests per minute are shown for the selected time range. Right below this, you can see summary graphs for requests per minute, average duration, and average resource size over time.
```

At the bottom, you can find a list of pages the resource is found in, sorted by the requests per minute for the resource on that page.

If you want to investigate a specific page, click on it to open a sidebar showing some sample events.

## Sample List

> Click on a page to open its samples list. This side panel shows summary metrics (requests per minute, average duration, and time spent) for the resource in the specific endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click on a page to open its samples list. This side panel shows summary metrics (requests per minute, average duration, and time spent) for the resource in the specific page.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: calc(50.829268292682926% + 41px); height: 0;"><iframe src="https://demo.arcade.software/D96Pu2LMLHddyVCn3BOd?embed" frameborder="0" loading="lazy" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;color-scheme: light;"></iframe></div>

```

The table shows a sample list of events, their span duration, and the difference in duration compared to average. This table is sorted by longest span duration.

Sentry automatically finds a variety of samples to help you investigate performance problems. The chosen events will cover the entire selected time range, as well as a range of durations (both faster than, slower than, and near the average duration). You can get a sense of the performance characteristics by comparing different sample events.

These same events are also represented as triangles shown in the average duration graph above.

You can generate a new list of random sample events by clicking the "Try Different Samples" button at the bottom.

> From the sample list, you can drill down to specific good, average, or bad examples of a given resource within a given endpoint. Click on an event ID to drill into the resource's span details within the span waterfall of the **Event Details** page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From the sample list, you can drill down to specific good, average, or bad examples of a given resource within a given page. Click on an event ID to drill into the resource's span details within the span waterfall of the **Event Details** page.
```

> From the sample list, you can drill down to specific good, average, or bad examples of a given resource within a given page. Click on an event ID to drill into the resource's span details within the span waterfall of the **Event Details** page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the sample list, you can drill down to specific good, average, or bad examples of a given resource within a given page. Click on an event ID to drill into the resource's span details within the span waterfall of the **Event Details** page.

<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: calc(50.829268292682926% + 41px); height: 0;"><iframe src="https://demo.arcade.software/h2B547DqgJGIrlsMeVWx?embed" frameborder="0" loading="lazy" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;color-scheme: light;"></iframe></div>

```

Reviewer 2: @vivianyentran I had a look at this arcade, there was an error in the sample sidebar here which should be fixed when this PR is merged https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/pull/60091

Reviewer 2: Reffering to this error
<img width="731" alt="image" src="https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-docs/assets/44422760/d9e28063-772e-47d8-9734-6c170e22bb61">

Reviewer: Yes, I noticed that too. I can replace the image / redo it once it gets fixed!

Reviewer 2: @vivianyentran Just checked, that PR deployed, so we redo those images now

---
title: Resources
sidebar_order: 50
description: "Learn more about browser resource performance monitoring, which allows you to see debug the performance of loading JavaScript and CSS on your frontend."
---

If you have performance monitoring enabled for your frontend, you can see how your browser resources are performing in Sentry.

Starting with the [**Resources** page](#resources-page), you get a high-level overview of how your resources are doing. From there, you can drill into a specific resource's [**Resource Summary** page](#resource-summary-page) and then investigate sample events from the [Sample List](#sample-list) to better understand the context of its performance in a specific page.

> <!-- TODO add gif -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: calc(50.86013462976814% + 41px); height: 0;"><iframe src="https://demo.arcade.software/BxySgGk7hpJ72xquLdKe?embed" frameborder="0" loading="lazy" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;color-scheme: light;"></iframe></div>```

## Prerequisites and Limitations

> The resource pages are only available for frontend JavaScript projects with performance monitoring enabled. Currently only JavaScript and CSS resources are supported.

Reviewer 2: Technically in the current state this is `resources initiated by css` as we are still relying on initatorTypes for span ops. @AbhiPrasad what do you think?

Author: Yeah we can explicitly link to the MDN docs as well, let's change it to resources initiated by css/css `url` function` and script tags.

Reviewer 2: @AbhiPrasad thoughts on this? Also after this minor edit, i think docs should be good to merge!

```suggestion
The resource pages are only available for frontend JavaScript projects with performance monitoring enabled. Currently only JavaScript, CSS, fonts and certain resources initiated by css such as fonts are supported.
```

Reviewer 2: Based on the recent file extension change, We technically don't support all resources initiated by css such as images, which is why I added "certain resources"

Open the **Resources** page by clicking "Resources" in the sidebar, under "Performance". Alternatively, the **Performance** page also surfaces the highest impact queries in the [TBD] widget. From there, you can click "View All" to open the **Resources** page.

At the top of the page, summary graphs for requests per minute (throughput) and average duration provide high-level insight into the performance of your resources. If you see an anomaly or want to investigate a time range further, you can click and drag to select a range directly in a graph to filter data for that time range.

The resource table below shows a list of grouped resources, along with their type, their volume (requests per min), average duration, the total time your app spent loading that resource (time spent), and [average encoded size](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceResourceTiming/encodedBodySize) of the resource.

Currently only JavaScript and CSS resources are supported.

<!-- TODO: Add information about time spent. Extract time spent docs into separate page? -->
<!-- This paragraph also exists in queries table -->

> <!-- By default, this table is sorted by most [time spent](#what-is-time-spent). This means that queries at the top are usually really slow, very frequent, or both. You can change this to sort by queries per minute to see the most frequently run queries, or by average duration to see the slowest queries. -->

Reviewer 2: @vivianyentran Do you have any opinions on this?
Rn we have this doc https://docs.sentry.io/product/performance/queries/#what-is-time-spent  for queries, but resources now has time spent as well.

I think we can either extract the time spent explanation into it's own section, share it between resources and queries and future modules.
Or we can just create a copy of it on the resource page (for now), and provide a resource specific example.

Reviewer: I think extracting it into a reusable section could make sense if it's something we see more future modules including. For this, I don't think it's necessary to make it a whole section; we could just add a paragraph here to explain how it's calculated. Something like this:

> By default, the resources table is sorted by most [time spent](#what-is-time-spent), which serves as a proxy for the relative performance impact of a given resource. A resource's time spent is the sum of all its durations in a given time period or, put another way, the product of its average duration and requests per minute. This means that resources at the top are usually loading really slowly, very frequently, or both. 
> 
> You can click on a column header to change how the table is sorted. Sort by requests per minute to see the most frequently loaded resources or by average duration to see the slowest-loading resources.

Reviewer 2: 👍 Thanks for the input, i'm good with that idea, will add the paragraph
